README.md, before:

# eFinder cli (aka Nexus eFinder)

![IMG_7238](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6b5f1d37-ee78-47f8-93d4-b56a7282c85d)

## Basics

eFinder cli is a digital finder for astronomical telescopes, utilising plate-solving to improve pointing accuracy.

Requires:

- microSd card loaded with Raspberry Pi 64bit Bookworm OS Lite (No desktop)
- Raspberry Pi Zero 2W.
- ADXL343 accelerometer sensor (optional)
- A custom box. 3d print files available
- A Camera, either the RP HQ Camera module (recommended) or an ASI Camera (Suggest ASI120MM-mini)
- Camera lens, 25mm f1.2 cctv lens
- A host computer (or Nexus DSC Pro)

Full details at [
](https://astrokeith.com/equipment/efinder)https://astrokeith.com/equipment/efinder

The repo includes a pdf describing how to prepare a complete working micro sdCard for the Pi Zero 2W

## Compatibility

The eFinder cli is designed to operate alongside a host computer or Nexus DSC Pro


## Operation

ssh & Samba file sharing is enabled at efinder.local, or whatever hostname you have chosen.

A forum for builders and users can be found at https://groups.io/g/eFinder

## Acknowledgements and Licences

The eFinder Cli uses Tetra3.

Commit message:

Revise README with camera and version details
Updated camera recommendations and added details about DIY versions.

README.md, after:

# eFinder cli (aka Nexus eFinder)

![IMG_7238](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6b5f1d37-ee78-47f8-93d4-b56a7282c85d)

## Basics

eFinder cli is a digital finder for astronomical telescopes, utilising plate-solving to improve pointing accuracy.
There are two DIY versions, 
- Full Version, the same as the commercially available device (AstroDevices) except for your own housing.
- Minimalist Version, with no daughter board it has no external power capability or ServoCat/SkyTracker support.

Requires:

- microSd card loaded with Raspberry Pi 64bit Bookworm OS Lite (No desktop)
- Raspberry Pi Zero 2W.
- ADXL343 accelerometer sensor (optional)
- Daughter Board (optional)
- A custom box. 3d print files available
- A Camera, the RPi HQ Camera module is recommended, although the Arducam equivalent can work.
- Camera lens, 25mm f1.2 cctv lens
- A host computer (or Nexus DSC Pro)

Full details at [
](https://astrokeith.com/equipment/efinder)https://astrokeith.com/equipment/efinder

The repo includes a pdf describing how to prepare a complete working micro sdCard for the Pi Zero 2W

## Compatibility

The eFinder cli is designed to operate alongside a host computer or Nexus DSC Pro


## Operation

ssh & Samba file sharing is enabled at efinder.local, or whatever hostname you have chosen.

A forum for builders and users can be found at https://groups.io/g/eFinder

## Acknowledgements and Licences

The eFinder Cli uses Tetra3.
